In Canada, there is a city called Quebec.
There, there is an annual festival.
Festival du Cochon.
In Sainte-Perpetue..
In that place, it is a pig festival…
And, the specific act that you see there is
“Wrestling with a greased pig”!
A fully greased pig, lolling in muddy slush,
you roll around along with it, and wrestle
it!
What a tradition!
We were talking about DonkeyPits, weren’t
we?
Just in the previous episode..
As I was researching about it, this was one
important advice I came across!
“Never wrestle with a pig”.
“Oh, you are in the DonkeyPit?
Let me also get into DonkeyPit..!” — never
attempt this.
Why?
Because, the pig has experience, remember
that.
And, you both get dirty, remember that!
And, the pig is going to enjoy it, remember
that!
They will bring you down to their level and
beat you with their experience!
— when dealing with a DonkeyPit!
That is the challenge!
You cannot become a DonkeyPit yourself!
Namaste!
This is the second of two parts, about DonkeyPits..!
We were talking about pig wrestling.
Don’t ever wrestle with a pig, said Robert
Sutton!
What else did he say?
He says, “Many people continue to stay..
You have identified that this person is a
DonkeyPit.
But, why do you continue to stay?
Could be a spouse.
Could be a friend.
Could be a manager.
Could even be the boss.
Or even a cofounder.
Why do they continue to stay?
In economics, there is this concept called
the Sunk Cost Fallacy.
Having done this far, having sweated it out,
having put in this much effort and time, I
don’t think it makes any sense coming out
of this relationship..”
Sunk Cost Fallacy.
You must surely remember the recent movie
called “Love Today”.
In that movie, towards the end, the last few
minutes, there is this scene at the beach.
I am sure you remember.
They both talk about it.
That guy says, “I had a perception about
the girl I’d fall in love with…”
But he finishes off with, “Well, the perception
is true, but I want it to be you”.
A very beautiful ending.
In this context, such an ending is amazing.
But, this is the Sunk Cost Fallacy.
All of us start with expectations, and then
reality hits us, and that’s when we say,
“Enough is enough!”
Good, most of the time, Great in this case,
but, also, Sutton says, Sunk Cost Fallacy,
it is a fallacy, remember, it prevents you
from realising, “Hey, why am I stuck in
this DonkeyPit, with this DonkeyPit..?!”
Get out of it!
Snap out of it!
There is a plate.
There are many cookies in that plate.
Each one takes one.
There is a group of people, a party, a team
meeting, whatever..
Or.. it need not even be a plate.
It need not even be a cookie.
It could be the Winnings.
The Profit.
It could be the Awards that we have won.
What is the right behaviour for a leader?
Forget the leader.
Look at ANYBODY for that matter.
What’s the right etiquette?
If there is only one biscuit left on the plate,
you shouldn’t be the person to pick that
last one!
Won’t they say this?
Didn’t our mom and dad train us with this
advice?
Don’t eat that last biscuit.
Some of us do that trick… break into two
halves and take one..
Our Simon Sinek, we have met him earlier,
he has written a BOOK on the subject — he
says, “Leaders Eat Last!”
We hear a lion roaring and all the way from
Africa comes a lion to ask us this question,
“Hey, you know what the Lion’s share is?
All my wives and children (I have more than
one wife, mind you!) all my wives and children,
they hunt and then they call me, they don’t
dare touch it!
I will take the lion’s share.. that still-beating
heart, still-warm bloody muscles, I feast
on it sumptuously, and the rest of the bit
morsels, I give it to the others.
I am the leader!
Want to ask me something?” asks the lion.
How do you reconcile these two?
Well, we are not in the jungle, and we are
not just a mammal.
We are a primate!
We evolved from HERE!
And, what do these people do?
These monkey people!?
They do… monkey business!
They have a book on that subject!
Exclusively!
What can we learn just observing the social
lives of these chimpanzees and gorillas!?
Three important lessons.
Lesson Number One is, “Keep your friends
close, but those enemies, somehow form a relationship
with them, keep them closer!”
Tip for you, in case you are stuck with DonkeyPits!
Yes, friends are important, but you need to
know what your enemies are doing.
What those jerks are up to.
So, bond with them.
Learn from the chimps.
Here is one more.
The Second Lesson is, “It is good to be
feared.
The spine-chilling effect your presence can
have.
Yes.
But, even better than that is, .. it is GREAT
to be liked!”
That love far surpasses the fear or the respect
factor.
How do you get that love?
You get by eating last.
You get, by sacrificing your meal.
Seeming to give away the best that you have
earned so that the others who can’t win
it by themselves, benefit because of your
relationship with them.
I can pluck one more.
I can hunt one more.
You can’t.
So, I am giving my best to you.
What a lesson if you are going to work with
DonkeyPits!
And, finally, it is also about having some
kind of common enemy…
Remember covid?
All countries, including warring ones, declared
truce!
They got together.
When there is a common enemy, internal skirmishes
are forgotten.
In the same way, identify a much larger, a
real problem out there, that person AND you,
the DonkeyPit AND you, you will see a greater
purpose, a common cause, to band together
for!
If a lion approaches, the chimps, even ones
that were fighting just moments ago, will
band together, one will hand fruits to the
other, the other will aim it at the lion.
That is how they survive in the plains of
Africa.
What beautiful lessons!
He goes on to give two more lessons.
I find it hard to believe..
can anybody even try such approaches..!
But the guy is famous.
Dr. Sutton.
Is a professor at Harvard.
He says, “Reduce Social Distancing!”
No no, not the covid mask kinda distancing!
He says, “Distancing comes when you have
disparity in pay.
If you have too much of a skew there, … just
like we saw in the birds on a tree cartoon,
similarly, when the disparity grows larger,
the fight, the tendency to act like a jerk,
the problems, start surfacing!
In the Society, the Social Distancing must
be reduced!
The way he recommends it, he seems to question
even the difference in salary, person to person!
Why should they even be different?!
Sounds almost communist!
But.. interesting!
He also underlines one more beautiful recommendation.
I really loved it.
We have seen it earlier in the Adam Grant
book “Give and Take”.
He says, “Yes, you are rewarding..
When somebody receives and somebody else gives,
yes, you reward the person who gave a lot.
As the Great Giver.
But, you should also reward the person who
gets!
Because, that person has had the courage to
ask for it!
Asking for help is SO important.
In a team, if there is to be a lubrication,
a smoothness, a friction-free interaction,
it is not enough if there is a Giver..
There has to be a person who knows how to
ASK too!
When you have both kinds of people, those
sitting inside DonkeyPits, will find it very
hard continuing in that DonkeyPit.
Water Isaacson wrote the biography of the
great Steve Jobs.
In that biography, there are multiple times
where one wonders if the author is alluding
to the fact that Steve Jobs has been the greatest
DonkeyPit of them all, without being explicit
about it..
He is an amazing visionary, no questions about
it, he changed the world of technology and
business and entertainment, not just once,
but multiple times, I love him, but beyond
all that, what a DonkeyPit he has been!!
But, wait, there is a redeeming factor in
that book.
Towards the end, in the Afterword.
The author writes, “I asked Steve.
My manuscript is ready, do you want to give
it a quick glance…?
He was still in the hospital.
Not too bedridden and sick.
I asked if he would like to see it, because,
that’s what I do.
When I write a biography, I respect the person.
For which, Steve responded with, Don’t show
it to me..!
The only reason I wanted you to write it?
Something had to be there that my children
can relate to..
What kind of person was the?
Why was he such a person?
DonkeyPit or not..!
That explanation has to be given by somebody..
For when I am done, when I die, people won’t
be silent.
They ARE going to write their versions.
Here is somebody who has worked with me, lived
my life along with me, to whom I have shared
my most private secrets, … Somebody who
has understood that and penned this, will
probably say something closer to the truth..
So I asked you to write this!
Don’t show it to me!
I know there will be parts in that book that
I won’t like!”
Isn’t that amazing?
I think he has redeemed himself, in that one
line.
Recently, Hervé Renard, Saudi Arabia’s
coach.. for the Football World Cup team.
Before the halftime whistle, they had been
thrashed soundly by Argentina.
During the half-time break, this is what happened
in the room.
And then, history.
Argentina LOST to Saudi Arabia.
What happened?
In that dressing room?
They even had a translator!
“Take your phone, you can make a picture
with him if you want!
You are in front of the defence!
You have nobody?
You have to follow him!
With ball, you were good!
Did you see what you did?
Don’t you feel something?
Don’t you feel we are able to come back?
Don’t you feel it?
Come on guys, come on, this is a World Cup!
Give EVERYTHING!”
He gave an excoriating motivational speech..
If Messi comes, you want to have selfie with
him, or do you want to defend against him?!
This galvanised the team, these people performed,
and defeated Argentina!
This is scientifically proven!
Usually mild-mannered people, coaches for
example, when they momentarily, occasionally,
once in a while, temporarily, blow their top,
people watch, people listen, and they follow!
If THIS (soft-spoken) person, if he himself
is reacting like this, there has to be something
that has really gone wrong.
Let us go back to the basics, let us fix it,
let us do it for our man.
For him!
Scientifically proven!
So, I am not saying, “Don’t be in the
DonkeyPit at all”, that is the Closing Thought
too.
Aristotle is supposed to have said, “Anger
is an easy emotion.
Anybody, anywhere, can get angry about anything!
But…, to be angry with the right person,
and to the right degree, and at the right
time, and for the right purpose, and in the
right way..!
That is not at all easy, doesn’t come naturally
to all…
So, yes, practice measured anger.
Not from inside a DonkeyPit!
That’s all!
Thank you!